We just installed the Express validator package.
Remember we're using this to do some validation of the different values that are given to us from our
users in our different forms.
Right now we're handling validation inside these very simple if statements doing validation inside of
this kind of style right here is going to make getting these validation messages into our template a
lot more challenging at the end of the day.
And that's what we're really focused on right now.
We want to make sure that we surface error messages to a user right inside of the form that they are
trying to submit.
So we just installed this library we just took a look at how to use it right here.
Let's require this library into our project and then we will start using it with our different root
handlers it's going to go back to my off dot J.S. file inside of my roots directory at the very top
right after our Express require statements.
I'm going to also require requiring const check from Express dash validated you'll notice that we have
some curly braces right here.
That is because we only care about the check function from the Express validator library.
We could just as easily require this in as like express validator but then anytime that we would want
to make use of that check function which is really the only thing that we care about right now we would
have to say express elevator dot check all over the place.
That would just start to be really annoying.
So instead we just restructure off the one function that we care about now to make use of this library
as we just saw inside the documentation.
We're going to find a different host request handlers that are going to receive some data from a form.
So the first one we have inside this file is a router not post slash sign up right here this request
handler is going to receive an email a password and a password confirmation and we're going to want
to do some validation of those inputs and then some somehow communicate any possible error messages
that might come out of that into our form when we eventually render it somewhere down here.
That's something we're going to add in in just a little bit.
So like we just saw inside the documentation in order to do some automatic validation we're going to
pass in an array as a second argument we're going to call the check function and each time we call the
check function.
We're going to pass in the name of the property that we want to validate.
So we want to validate email password and password confirmation does the second argument I'm going to
put in an array
and then inside I'll call check with a string of email OK call check with a string of password and I'll
call check with the string of password confirmation.
Now in order to do some actual validation for each of these different properties we're going to chain
on some additional method calls just like we see in this example.
So for example if we want to make sure that the email actually is an email we'll chain on dot is email
now before just throwing in some validation code I want to give you a better idea of how to actually
read the documentation and understand how to actually do this validation stuff.
So let's take a quick aside here take a look at the documentation in greater detail and help you understand
exactly what this example right here is really trying to tell us so back at the Express validate or
documentation.
I'm going to take a look at the bottom left hand side.
I got to find the API section and I'm going to click on a validation chain API on this other page.
I'm going to then scroll down a little bit and find a yellow box right here that says very complete
list of standard validators check out validator JSA stocks.
And I'm gonna open up that link inside of a new page that's going to pull up a get hub document.
So on this page we're gonna see a list of validators these are different functions that we can change
on to this check function right here or each of these three check functions if we chain on any of these
different functions right here.
They're going to add in additional validation requirement.
So for example we can add on or chain on a method call of say is ASCII.
To make sure that the incoming string that the user provided has ASCII characters only or make sure
that as a string that is Base64 encoded we can check to make sure that it is a boolean we can check
to make sure that it is a decimal number we can check to see if it's an email which already saw we can
see if it's a float that that is a number with a decimal and so on throughout this entire list you can
see all the different ways that we can automatically validate some user input so that might sound kind
of simple and straightforward to some degree.
But I want to point out that there's something kind of interesting when you start to look at this documentation
just a moment ago we were looking at the getting started guide and all the getting started guide over
here it said Oh yeah.
Call check username and a chain on dot is email.
But if we look back over here you'll see that on this documentation page all these different functions
say oh yeah you're going to call the function like is email.
And the first argument to it is going to be the string that you want to validate.
So an important thing to understand here is that the validator J.S. library that we're looking at right
now is used internally by the Express validator package that we just installed.
So we're really looking at two different libraries here.
The goal of express validator is to expose all the functionality of validator J.S. in a very convenient
way to make it very easy to work with from Express so when we look at the validator J S documentation
we really have to do a little translation step.
We're not going to use all these code snippets directly from validator J.S. in other words we're not
going to call it like equals and passing the string as the first argument.
Instead the Express validator library has wired all this stuff together in a really clever fashion so
that if we call it check with email and then chain on like is email we're not going to put in the actual
wrecked body dot e-mail right here instead.
EXPRESS validator is going to very cleverly reach into the incoming request.
Going to take a look at that body property and that's going to automatically throw that email as the
first argument into that validation function for us.
So the only thing I really want to communicate here.
I know that probably sounds really confusing.
Don't thing an invalid or communicate is that one library validator J.S. is contained inside the other
and that means that the documentation that we're looking at inside validate or JSA and all these are
validators the way that we actually make you use these functions is slightly different than the validator
J.S. documentation shows us.
We don't call it equals with the first argument of the string we want to validate.
Instead we do what that express validator says which is to call check lists the property we want to
validate and then do all these changed on methods that are going to actually call the underlying validation
stuff for us I know that's nasty but it is what it is.
Right.
It is what it is I gets that step one to kind of understanding what is going on here next.
Very quickly want to mention is that inside of the Express validator library.
There's actually two different things that we're going to do to operate on all these different incoming
values.
We can do validation which is what we've been looking at so far a validation step is going to make sure
that an incoming value that a user provided meets some given criteria.
So it is an ASCII string it's a base64 string it's an email while a ball it kind of stuff.
We are checking to make sure that the incoming value satisfies some criteria.
The other thing that we can do with Express validator is sanitization.
We can see a link to the documentation around sanitization down here.
So sanitization chain API the goal of sanitization is to massage or change the incoming value that a
user has provided.
So we might want to do this if we ever expect that a user is going to give us some unreliable value.
A really good example of sanitization is right here at the very top of the sanitization chain API so
a very common sanitization step that we'll do is to trim the incoming value when we trim an incoming
value.
Well let me give you a quick example of that.
If you go back over to our form sometimes a user totally accidentally might put on some leading spaces
inside of an input and then put in their password.
This is usually just about always a mistake on the user's behalf.
We really assume as developers that a user does not intend to have any leading spaces or trailing spaces
so when we trim an input that a user has provided we're going to automatically delete all the leading
spaces and all the trailing spaces.
And so essentially just reduce it down to password like so with no spaces on the end.
So that is a example of a very common sanitization step that a lot of Web applications do automatically
another type of sanitization that we might want to do is to standardize an incoming email we can take
a look at some other sanitization options we can do by going back over to the validator J.S. documentation.
So this is where we were just looking at all those different possible validators.
If you already close this page you can go back to sanitization chain API.
Scroll down a little bit and you'll see a link back to a validator J.S. stocks right there as well so
on this page we can scroll past all the validators and find some the sanitizers inside of sanitizers.
We'll see that we can escape some incoming text.
This is to make sure that a user doesn't enter anything that looks like each team l essentially uses
for handling some security issues that we're going to very much discuss in great detail later on.
So we're not going to worry about escaping just yet this will also make sure that we can normalize an
email.
You could read some the options of what this actually does for us.
We can also take a look at say make sure that this takes some string input and converts it to a date
or to an integer or two.
Whereas our trim there's trim so the trim is the function we just spoke about a moment ago.
So again validation is to make sure that the user's input is about is conforming to some structure Sanitization
is going to make an actual change to whatever the user gave to us.
All right.
So this has been a very long video.
I apologize for that but a lot of stuff is just really important stuff to go through at least once.
So let's take a quick pause right here.
When we come back in the next section we're going to add on all the different sanitization and validation
options we need to email password and password confirmation.